Africa is the only continent in all four hemispheres.
Canada has the longest coastline in the world.
There’s a town in Norway called “Hell” — and it freezes over every winter.
Alaska is the westernmost, easternmost, and northernmost state of the U.S.
The Dead Sea is so salty, you can effortlessly float in it.
Russia spans 11 time zones.
Australia is wider than the moon.
Mount Everest grows about 4mm taller every year due to shifting tectonic plates.
Vatican City is the smallest country in the world — both in size and population.
Iceland has no mosquitoes.
Cleopatra lived closer in time to the moon landing than to the construction of the Great Pyramid.
Napoleon was once attacked by a horde of bunnies.
The Eiffel Tower can grow taller in summer due to thermal expansion.
Ancient Romans used urine to wash clothes.
George Washington grew marijuana on his plantation.
The shortest war in history was between Britain and Zanzibar — it lasted 38 minutes.
Vikings never wore horned helmets.
Albert Einstein was offered the presidency of Israel in 1952 — he declined.
The Great Fire of London in 1666 destroyed 80% of the city, yet only 6 people were recorded dead.
Pablo Picasso could draw before he could walk.
A teaspoon of a neutron star would weigh 6 billion tons.
Water can boil and freeze at the same time (called the triple point).
Humans share about 60% of their DNA with bananas.
Octopuses have three hearts and blue blood.
The speed of a sneeze can reach up to 100 mph.
The human body glows in the dark — but the light is 1,000 times weaker than our eyes can detect.
The Eiffel Tower shrinks in the cold.
If the Earth were the size of a billiard ball, it would be smoother.
Sloths can hold their breath longer than dolphins.
Saturn’s density is so low it would float in water (if you had a big enough tub).
The word “bookkeeper” has three consecutive double letters.
The longest English word without a vowel is “rhythms.”
The longest word in English has 189,819 letters — it’s the chemical name of titin.
“I am” is the shortest complete sentence in English.
Shakespeare invented over 1,700 words — including “eyeball” and “swagger.”
The dot over an “i” or “j” is called a “tittle.”
The word “alphabet” comes from the first two Greek letters: alpha and beta.
"Queue" is the only word where removing the last four letters still leaves the original pronunciation.
Dr. Seuss invented the word "nerd" in 1950.
The sentence “The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog” uses every letter in the alphabet.
A group of flamingos is called a "flamboyance."
Koalas have fingerprints nearly identical to humans.
Cows have best friends and get stressed when separated.
A shrimp's heart is in its head.
Elephants can “hear” with their feet by detecting ground vibrations.
Sea otters hold hands while sleeping to avoid drifting apart.
A group of crows is called a “murder.”
Turritopsis dohrnii, a type of jellyfish, is considered biologically immortal.
Frogs can freeze without dying.
Wombat poop is cube-shaped.
Your brain uses the same amount of power as a 10-watt light bulb.
Your nose can remember 50,000 different scents.
Humans are the only animals that blush.
You can't tickle yourself because your brain predicts the sensation.
Your bones are 5 times stronger than steel of the same density.
The average person produces about 25,000 quarts of saliva in a lifetime — enough to fill two swimming pools.
You can’t breathe and swallow at the same time.
Right-handed people tend to chew food on the right side.
The human stomach gets a new lining every 3 to 4 days.
Your body has more bacteria than human cells.
Helium is the only element that was first discovered in space, not on Earth.
Diamond and graphite are both made entirely of carbon.
Sound travels 4 times faster in water than in air.
A day on Venus is longer than its year.
Mercury is the only metal that is liquid at room temperature.
Absolute zero is the theoretical lowest possible temperature: -273.15°C.
Glass is actually a very slow-moving liquid — not a solid.
The Eiffel Tower’s metal expands and contracts with temperature.
The element gallium can melt in your hand.
Lightning is hotter than the surface of the sun.
The Mona Lisa has no eyebrows — they were likely shaved off by over-cleaning.
Vincent van Gogh only sold one painting during his lifetime.
Beethoven composed some of his greatest works while deaf.
The color orange is named after the fruit — not the other way around.
The Louvre in Paris is the world’s most visited museum.
Bob Ross finished each painting in just 30 minutes.
The Statue of Liberty was originally a dull copper color.
The Great Wave off Kanagawa was made using woodblock printing.
The longest-running Broadway show is The Phantom of the Opera.
Ancient Greeks used theater masks with megaphone-like mouths to amplify sound.
The first computer mouse was made of wood.
The first email was sent in 1971 by Ray Tomlinson.
The Apollo 11 computer had less computing power than a modern smartphone.
The first 1GB hard drive cost $40,000 and weighed over 500 pounds.
Nintendo started as a playing card company in 1889.
Google was originally called “BackRub.”
The first website is still online: info.cern.ch.
CAPTCHA stands for “Completely Automated Public Turing test to tell Computers and Humans Apart.”
Bluetooth is named after a Viking king.
The QWERTY keyboard was designed to slow down typing, not speed it up.
There’s a basketball court in the U.S. Supreme Court building.
Honey never spoils — archaeologists have found edible 3,000-year-old honey in Egyptian tombs.
A jiffy is a real unit of time — about 1/100th of a second.
The unicorn is the national animal of Scotland.
A bolt of lightning contains enough energy to toast 100,000 slices of bread.
The inventor of the Pringles can is buried in one
The word “OK” is the most widely understood word in the world.
You can’t hum while holding your nose.
Bananas are berries, but strawberries aren’t.
There's enough DNA in your body to stretch from the Earth to the sun — and back — about 600 times.

